So in the last video
we ended up by covering the less familiar
text search methods in String.
So let's now talk about other types
of manipulations of strings.
Specifically in this video, we'll look at the
join, split, and replace methods.
So I'm gonna to create yet another new class
in this Strings project.
And we'll call this one StringSpliceAndDice.
Okay, so we're starting out with some basic code,
as you can see there.
Let's run this.
And you can see the following code creates a sentence
out of the array of words
using the good ol' concat method,
and also a for loop.
All right, so far so good.
Let's now try out join, because we've seen concat.
Now join was introduced in Java 8,
so it's been here for a while now.
So let's have a look at some code using join.
Okay, there's the code.
If you run that
and you can see effectively what the join method's doing,
or can do, is similar to what
the concatenation operator does, but without the for loop.
All right, so let's just add one more segment on joining.
Okay, there's the code,
I just need to add an import to that.
All right so this code gives you an example of StringJoiner,
which was a utility class added in Java 8.
And you saw that I needed to import Java.util.StringJoiner.
So if you run that,
and there's the result.
Now since we've talked about joining,
let's now talk about splitting a string.
So let's take our sentence and split it into words.
I'm gonna paste in some code that'll do that for us.
Okay, there's the code.
Now this takes our string
and splits it into an array of string,
using a regular expression string to do it.
Now in this case, our regular expression
is simply the space character, AKA Unicode character 0020.
So if we run this,
you can see we get the results
Hello, World, How, are, you.
Basically the string, split into an array of strings.
Now that's a pretty straightforward split.
If you want a more sophisticated split, for example
all space characters, we could try the following code
which I'll paste in now.
So this code uses a regular expression
for the split delimiter, matching on any white space
instead of what previously we used,
which was just the Unicode character 0020
which is a space.
So let's run this.
And you can see the results we're getting there
at the bottom of the screen.
All right, so now that we've done that,
let's try a partial.
I'll paste in the code.
And you can see here we only want a couple of values,
we don't want all the values.
So let's actually run it.
So the result of running this code
is to create a two-element array.
The first element is the first element split off,
and then the remainder of the string
becomes the second element.
And that's why we've got Hello, and the second string
is World How are you.
All right, so now that we've joined and split strings,
we'll turn our focus to the four replace methods
on the String class.
See you in the next video.